=head1 NAME

aklog-kafs - AFS Kerberos authentication tool

=head1 SYNOPSIS

aklog-kafs [-dhkV] [<cell> [<realm>]]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This program is used to get an authentication ticket from Kerberos
that can be used by the in-kernel AFS filesystem (kAFS) to perform
authenticated and encrypted accesses to the an AFS cell.  Without this
only unencrypted anonymous accesses can be made.

Before calling this, the C<kinit> program or similar should be invoked
to authenticate with the appropriate Kerberos server.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over

=item <cell>

This is the name of the cell with which the ticket is intended to be
used.  If not given, the name of the default cell will be read from
C</proc/net/afs/rootcell> and used instead.

The root cell can be set in the C</etc/kafs/client> configuration
file by setting the C<thiscell> in the C<[defaults]> section.  If
the value of thiscell is changed in the configuration file than
C<kafs-preload> needs to be run to refresh the value in the
C</proc/net/afs/rootcell> file.

=item <realm>

This is the name of the Kerberos realm from which the ticket will be
obtained.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item C<-h>

Display help text and exit.

=item C<-d>

Display processing messages.  Specifying C<-d> more than once increases
the verbosity of the messages.

=item C<-k>

Manually specify keyring to add AFS key into.  Otherwise, a session
keyring will be used first if found before automatically switching to
the uid-session keyring.

Valid values are:

         session
         uid-session

=item C<-V>

Show version and exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

      # aklog-kafs -d
      Default cell from /proc/net/afs/rootcell: ca-zephyr.org
      Realm: CA-ZEPHYR.ORG
      CELL ca-zephyr.org
      PRINC afs/ca-zephyr.org@CA-ZEPHYR.ORG
      successfully added key: 44095043 to session keyring

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<kinit>(1), B<keyctl> (1), B<kafs-preload> (8), B<kafs-client.conf>(5)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2018 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Written by David Howells <dhowells@redhat.com>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.
