=head1 NAME

kafs-dns - AFS filesystem address resolution helper

=head1 SYNOPSIS

      /usr/libexec/kafs-dns\fR [OPTION]... <key_serial>
      /usr/libexec/kafs-dns\fR -D [OPTION]... <desc> <calloutinfo>
      /usr/libexec/kafs-dns\fR -V

Where options are:

      [-v] [-c <conffile>]* [-N <restriction>] [-o <dumpfile>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This program is invoked by the B<request-key>(8) kernel upcall
handling program to handle an address resolution request on behalf of
the in-kernel AFS filesystem driver to find the Volume Location
servers for a cell.  It is capable of using static configuration, NSS
and DNS SRV and AFSDB record lookups.

Note that this program is not meant to be called directly, though it
does have a debugging mode that can be used.

The first form of the command, without the \fB-D\fR flag cannot be
called directly as it requires an under-construction kernel key as its
parameter.

The debugging form, in which \fB-D\fR is given, doesn't require a key, but
must be given a proposed key description and a callout information string.
Information about what it is doing is dumped to the output.  The result blob
may be binary and so is not dumped to stdout, but can be dumped to a file with
C<-o\ <dumpfile>>.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

The key description, C<desc>, should be the name of a cell prefixed by
C<afsdb:>.

The callout information string, C<calloutinfo>, is a comma separated list
of none or more of the following items:

=over

=item ipv4

Get IPv4 addresses only.

=item ipv6

Get IPv6 addresses only.

=item srv=<ver>

Allow the extra information that can be gleaned from SRV records to be
rendered as output format C<ver>, where C<ver> is a number.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-D>

Execute in debug mode.

=item B<-v>

Increase the verbosity of the output.  This may be specified multiple
times.

=item B<-c <conffile>>

Specify a configuration file to read instead of the system default.  This may
be specified multiple times and the configuration files are read and applied in
order.

=item B<-N <restriction>>

Apply a restriction to the lookup performed for the listed cells (if
any are).  Restrictions include:

=over

=item vl-srv

Don't use SRV records to find Volume Location servers.

=item vl-afsdb

Don't use AFSDB records to find Volume Location servers.

=item vl-all

Don't use SRV or AFSDB records to find Volume Location servers.

=item vl-host

Don't look cell name up as hostname to find a Volume Location server.

=item vl-dns

Don't do any lookups to find Volume Location servers.  Use only the
static configuration.

=back

=item B<-o <dumpfile>>

Specify a file in which to dump the proposed payload with which to
instantiate a resolver key.

=item B<-V>

Display version information and exit.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over

=item 0 - On success

=item 1 - If an error occurs during processing

=item 2 - If a command line error occurs

=item 3 - If bad configuration is detected.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

The program can be called with something like:

      /usr/libexec/kafs-dns -D afsdb:example.com srv=1

The program can also be invoked indirectly with something like:

      keyctl request2 dns_resolver afsdb:example.com srv=1 @s

which will return the serial number of a key that can then be displayed.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<kafs> (7), B<kafs-client.conf>(5), B<keyctl> (1), B<request-key>(8)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2020 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Written by David Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

