.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2019 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by David Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.TH KAFS-CHECK-CONFIG 1 "16 Apr 2019" Linux "AFS Config Checker"
.SH NAME
kafs-check-config \- AFS configuration check tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBkafs-check-config\fR [OPTION]... [<cellname>]*
.P
Where options are:
.P
.RS
[-46PDvv] [-c <conffile>]* [-N <restriction>]
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is used to check the configuration for the in-kernel AFS
filesystem (kAFS).  This configuration is used when systemd mounts the
filesystem to load up the cell database and create cell automounts in the /afs
directory.
.P
The configuration is also used by the kernel name resolver upcall to provide
static configuration for some cells and to specify overrides and limits on DNS
lookups.
.P
If a list of \fB<cellname>\fR arguments is given, the listed cells will be
dumped, including the sources of the Volume Location records and address
records.
.P
The available options are:
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP -4
Only show IPv4 addresses in the dump.
.IP -6
Only show IPv6 addresses in the dump.
.IP -P
Dump the parse tree of the configuration file(s).
.IP -D
Dump the cell database extracted from the configuration.
.IP -v
Increase the verbosity of the output.  This may be specified multiple times.
.IP "-c <conffile>"
Specify a configuration file to read instead of the system default.  This may
be specified multiple times and the configuration files are read and applied in
order.
.IP "-N <restriction>"
Apply a restriction to the lookup performed for the listed cells (if any are).
Restrictions include:
.RS
.IP "-N vl-srv"
Don't use SRV records to find Volume Location servers.
.IP "-N vl-afsdb"
Don't use AFSDB records to find Volume Location servers.
.IP "-N vl-all"
Don't use SRV or AFSDB records to find Volume Location servers.
.IP "-N vl-host"
Don't look cell name up as hostname to find a Volume Location server.
.IP "-N vl-dns"
Don't do any lookups to find Volume Location servers.  Use only the static
configuration.
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP 0
If check okay and any dumping succeeded.
.IP 1
If an error occurs during processing.
.IP 2
If a command line error occurs.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR kafs (7),
.BR kafs\-client.conf (5)
