.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2019 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by David Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.TH KAFS 7 "16 Apr 2019" Linux "In-kernel AFS filesystem"
.SH NAME
kafs \- In-kernel AFS filesystem
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kafs
is a network filesystem driver in the Linux kernel that is able to access AFS
cells and the servers contained therein to locate the logical volumes that
comprise the cell and the files contained in each volume.
.P
It supports transport over IPv4 UDP and IPv6 UDP and security based on
Kerberos.  The authentication token is used to define the user for the purpose
of providing access control as well as providing communications security.
.P
The filesystem is of type "afs" and the mount command can be used to mount afs
volumes manually using the "-t" flag on
.BR mount (8).

.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SETTING UP
The \fBkafs-client\fP package should be installed to so that systemd is
configured to include a mount of AFS dynamic root on /afs.  Note that mounting
/afs is not enabled by default, so if it is needed, then \fIsystemd\fP should
be told to enable it.  This can be done with the following step:
.P
.RS
.nf
systemctl enable afs.mount
.fi
.RE
.P
This will mount a special directory on \fB/afs\fR which will be populated by
an automount directory for each cell listed in the configuration.  Doing a
pathwalk into one of these directories will result in the \fBafs.cell\fR
volume from the cell being mounted onto that directory.
.P
Local configuration should be placed in a file in the /etc/kafs/client.d/
directory.  This will be included from client.conf in the next directory up.
.P
Typically in the local configuration, the local cell name would be specified
and backup details of its Volume Location server addresses would be given.
.P
Also any overrides for the @sys filename substitution would be specified.  See
.BR kafs\-client.conf (5).

.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH OPERATION
Once the kafs-client is set up (and if there's no local cell, this is
practically zero-conf, provided the cells to be accessed are properly set up
with AFSDB or SRV records in the DNS), the /afs directory can be accessed:
.P
.RS
.nf
ls /afs/<cell>/location/within/cell
.fi
.RE
.P
For example:
.P
.RS
.nf
ls /afs/rivendell.example.com/doc
.fi
.RE
.P
The user isn't limited to cells listed in /afs, but any cell can be tried by
just substituting the name of the cell into the above formula.  It does
require the target to have DNS-based configuration provided.
.P
Note that each logical volume gets a discrete superblock and links between
volumes turn into kernel mountpoints that, if stepped on, cause the
appropriate volume to be mounted over them.

.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SECURITY
.P
kafs supports Kerberos-based authentication and communication encryption
through the use of Kerberos.  The \fBkinit\fP program can be use to
authenticate with a Kerberos server:
.P
.RS
.nf
kinit myname@RIVENDELL.EXAMPLE.COM
.fi
.RE
.P
and then the \fBaklog-kafs\fP program to get a ticket for the kernel
filesystem to use:
.P
.RS
.nf
aklog-kafs rivendell.example.com
.fi
.RE
.P
This will be placed on the caller's session keyring and can be viewed there
with:
.P
.RS
.nf
keyctl show
.fi
.RE
.P
Note that the default realm is assumed to be the same as the cell name, but in
all upper case.




.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR aklog\-kafs (1),
.BR kafs\-client.conf (5),
.BR keyctl (1),
.BR kinit (1),
.BR rxrpc (7),
.BR session\-keyring (7),
.BR systemctl (1)
