.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2019 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by David Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.TH KAFS-CLIENT.CONF 5 "17 Apr 2019" Linux "kAFS Configuration"
.SH NAME
/etc/kafs/client.conf
.br
/etc/kafs/client.d/ \- kAFS filesystem configuration
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH DESCRIPTION
Configuration information for the in-kernel kAFS filesystem can be provided in
the /etc/kafs/ directory.  This may include the following:
.IP
- A list of cells to be preconfigured
.IP
- Fallback addresses for each cell.
.IP
- The name of the default cell (the
.B @cell
substitution).
.IP
- A list of strings for the
.BR @sys " substitution."
.PP
When the
.B afs.mount
service is started by
.BR systemd (1),
a configuration service
.RB ( kafs-config.service )
runs first and loads the configuration into the kernel from the
.B client.conf
file.  This contains directives to include other things, such as the contents
of the
.B client.d/
directory and the generic public cell database.
.PP
Once the afs.mount service is started (or if an AFS volume is manually
mounted), if a mountpoint is triggered, the kernel will upcall by means of
.BR request-key (8)
to look up addresses for the Volume Location servers for the named cell.  This
will also parse the configuration.

.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT
The file format is based on the MIT Kerberos configuration file format.  There
are a couple of general directives:
.TP
.BR include " " /path/to/file
This includes the contents of the named file in the parse at this point.
.TP
.BR includedir " " /path/to/dir/
This includes the files in the named directory in the parse at this point.
Files that have names beginning with "." or ending with "~" are ignored.
.PP
Leading and trailing whitespace on a line is ignored.  Any line otherwise
beginning with a "#" character is considered a comment and ignored.
.PP
Any line that contains a label bounded by square brackets, e.g. "[cells]", by
itself on that line denotes a switch to the section specified by that label.
.PP
Configuration data is specified within a named section as a series of
.BR key = value
pairs, where a value may be one of nothing, an unquoted string, a quoted
string or a braced lists containing further key=value pairs.  Whitespace
either side of the "=" symbol is ignored.
.PP
For example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
[cells]
rivendell.example.com = {
	description = "Last Homely Cell"
	use_dns = yes
	servers = {
		elrond.rivendell.example.com = {
			address = 192.0.2.23
		}
	}
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
If two or more consecutive clauses specify values for the same key sequence
(so cells:rivendell.example.com:use_dns, for example), then they are merged
together to form a single list.  If a single value is expected for a
configuration item, the last element in the list is taken.
.PP
To prevent overriding by subsequent conflicting configuration, an asterisk can
be placed after the closing brace in a braced list to indicate that that list
is closed, for example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
[cells]
rivendell.example.com = {
	description = "Foo"
	use_dns = no
}*
.fi
.RE
.PP
Strings that are intepreted as boolean values are classed as false if they
match one of
.BR 0 ", " f ", " false ", " n ", " no " or " off ,
and classed as true if they match one off
.BR 1 ", " t ", " true ", " y ", " yes " or " on .
The match is case-independent.

.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH GENERAL SETTINGS
The first section contains general system-level settings shared between all
utilities and the kernel.  This is denoted by the section label
"\fB[defaults]\fP".
.PP
The system settings that may be changed are configured in this section with
the following key-value pairs:
.TP
.B thiscell = <cellname>
This sets the name of the local cell.  This will be used to configure the
.B @cell
path substitution and will also supply the default cellname for
.BR aklog-kafs (1).
.TP
.B sysname = [<systype>]*
This specifies a (potentially empty) list of strings which the kernel should
attempt to substitute in turn for "\fB@sys\fR" at the end of a filename until
a match is found.


.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH CELL DEFINITIONS
The second section contains a list of preconfigured cells, to be used in
preloading the cell list in /afs and also to provide fallback or override
address data for locating Volume Location servers.  This is denoted by the
section label "\fB[cells]\fP".
.PP
Within the cell list, each cell is declared with a key=value pair, where the
key is the name of the cell and the value is a braced list indicating the
details, e.g.:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B [cells]
rivendell.example.com = {
	...
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
A cell definition may contain any number of key=value pairs.  The keys that
are taken note of are:
.TP
.BR description " = " <string>
This is a text description for the cell.
.TP
.BR show_cell " = " <boolean>
Whether a cell should be shown in /afs.
.TP
.BR use_dns " = " <boolean>
Whether address look ups for a cell may use the DNS.
.TP
.BR kerberos_realm " = " <string>
The name of the Kerberos realm to use for a cell by default.
.TP
.BR servers " = " { " ... " }
A list of servers for the cell, where each element in the list is a key=value
pair, where the key is the name of a server and the value is a braced section
of the details for that server.
.PP
The elements in the list of server details attached to each server can
comprise the following keys:
.TP
.B type = vlserver
The server is an AFS Volume Location server.  This is the default.
.TP
.B type = ptserver
The server is an AFS Protection server.
.TP
.BR address " = " [<protocol>/]<address>[:<port>]
Specify a single address for a server.  The
.B address
is required and can be a single IPv4 or a single IPv6 address, and may be
brackets with square brackets (to avoid confusion with the port number, if
specified).  The
.B protocol
is optional; currently only
.B udp
is supported.  The
.B port
is also optional and may be specified to change the UDP port from the default
for the server type.


.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
.B [defaults]
thiscell = rivendell.example.com
sysname = fedora28_x86 amd64_linux

.B [cells]
corp.example.com = {
	description = "Valinor Corporation cell"
	use_dns = yes
	servers = {
		manwe.corp.example.com = {
			address = 2001:db8:123::13
			address = 203.0.113.19
		}
		ulmo.corp.example.com = {
			address = [2001:db8:123::750c:1234]:6666
			address = 203.0.113.3:6666
		}
		aule.corp.example.com = {
			address = udp/[2001:db8:123::abcd:9090]
			address = udp/203.0.113.189
		}
		namo.corp.example.com = {
			type = ptserver
			address = 2001:db8:123::8888
			address = 203.0.113.88
		}
	}
}

rivendell.example.com = {
	description = "Last Homely Cell"
	servers = {
		elrond.rivendell.example.com = {
			address = 192.0.2.23
		}
		arwen.rivendell.example.com = {
			address = 192.0.2.75
		}
	}
}
.fi
.PP



.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR kafs (7),
.BR kafs\-check\-config (8),
.BR systemd (1)
