=head1 NAME

kafs-preload - AFS filesystem configuration preloader

=head1 SYNOPSIS

kafs-preload [-Dv] [<configuration file>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This program loads static configuration into the AFS filesystem, such
as preloading cells, setting the workstation cell (@cell), and the
system identifier list (@sys).

This program is not usually invoked directly, but rather is usually
called from a systemd service unit file.  If the properties sysname
or thiscell are changed in the kafs client configuration file running
kafs-preload will update the /proc files.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-D>

Execute in debug mode.  Instead of writing to various /proc files,
write to stdout.

=item B<-v>

Increase the verbosity of the output.  This may be specified multiple
times.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over

=item 0 - On success

=item 1 - If an error occurs during processing

=item 2 - If a command line error occurs

=item 3 - If bad configuration is detected

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

      # kafs-preload -v /etc/kafs/client.conf
      kAFS: Preloading cell database
      INFO: rootcell set to ca-zephyr.org
      INFO: sysname set to x86_64


=head1 SEE ALSO

B<kafs-client.conf>(5), B<aklog-kafs>(1), B<kafs>(7), B<proc>(5)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2020 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Written by David Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.
