.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2020 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by David Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.TH KAFS-DNS 8 "9 Jun 2020" Linux "AFS kernel address resolver"
.SH NAME
kafs-dns \- AFS filesystem address resolution helper
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/usr/libexec/kafs-dns\fR [OPTION]... <key_serial>
.br
\fB/usr/libexec/kafs-dns\fR -D [OPTION]... <desc> <calloutinfo>
.br
\fB/usr/libexec/kafs-dns\fR -V
.PP
Where options are:
.PP
.RS
[-v] [-c <conffile>]* [-N <restriction>] [-o <dumpfile>]
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is invoked by the
.BR request-key (8)
kernel upcall handling program to handle an address resolution request on
behalf of the in-kernel AFS filesystem driver to find the Volume Location
servers for a cell.  It is capable of using static configuration, NSS and DNS
SRV and AFSDB record lookups.
.PP
Note that this program is not meant to be called directly, though it does have
a debugging mode that can be used.
.PP
The first form of the command, without the \fB-D\fR flag cannot be called
directly as it requires an under-construction kernel key as its parameter.
.PP
The debugging form, in which \fB-D\fR is given, doesn't require a key, but
must be given a proposed key description and a callout information string.
Information about what it is doing is dumped to the output.  The result blob
may be binary and so is not dumped to stdout, but can be dumped to a file with
\fB-o\ <dumpfile>\fR.
.PP
The available options are:
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP -D
Execute in debug mode.
.IP -v
Increase the verbosity of the output.  This may be specified multiple times.
.IP "-c <conffile>"
Specify a configuration file to read instead of the system default.  This may
be specified multiple times and the configuration files are read and applied in
order.
.IP "-N <restriction>"
Apply a restriction to the lookup performed for the listed cells (if any are).
Restrictions include:
.RS
.IP "-N vl-srv"
Don't use SRV records to find Volume Location servers.
.IP "-N vl-afsdb"
Don't use AFSDB records to find Volume Location servers.
.IP "-N vl-all"
Don't use SRV or AFSDB records to find Volume Location servers.
.IP "-N vl-host"
Don't look cell name up as hostname to find a Volume Location server.
.IP "-N vl-dns"
Don't do any lookups to find Volume Location servers.  Use only the static
configuration.
.RE
.IP "-o <dumpfile>"
Specify a file in which to dump the proposed payload with which to instantiate
a resolver key.
.IP "-V"
Display version information and exit.
.PP
The key description, \fB<desc>\fR, should be the name of a cell prefixed by
"afsdb:".
.PP
The callout information string, \fB<calloutinfo>\fR, is a comma separated list
of none or more of the following items:
.IP "ipv4"
Get IPv4 addresses only.
.IP "ipv6"
Get IPv6 addresses only.
.IP "srv=<ver>"
Allow the extra information that can be gleaned from SRV records to be
rendered as output format \fB<ver>\fR, where <ver> is a number.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP 0
On success.
.IP 1
If an error occurs during processing.
.IP 2
If a command line error occurs.
.IP 3
If bad configuration is detected.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
The program can be called with something like:
.PP
.RS
.nf
/usr/libexec/kafs-dns -D afsdb:example.com srv=1
.fi
.RE
.PP
The program can also be invoked indirectly with something like:
.PP
.RS
.nf
keyctl request2 dns_resolver afsdb:example.com srv=1 @s
.fi
.RE
.PP
which will return the serial number of a key that can then be displayed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR kafs (7),
.BR kafs\-client.conf (5),
.BR keyctl (1),
.BR request-key (8)
