=head1 NAME

kafs-check-config - AFS configuration check tool

=head1 SYNOPSIS

kafs-check-config [-46PDvv] [-c <conffile>]* [-N <restriction>] [<cellname>]*

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This program is used to check the configuration for the in-kernel AFS
filesystem (kAFS).  This configuration is used when systemd mounts the
filesystem to load up the cell database and create cell automounts in
the /afs directory.

The configuration is also used by the kernel name resolver upcall to
provide static configuration for some cells and to specify overrides
and limits on DNS lookups.

If a list of C<cellname> arguments is given, the listed cells will be
dumped, including the sources of the Volume Location records and
address records.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-4>

Only show IPv4 addresses in the dump.

=item B<-6>

Only show IPv6 addresses in the dump.

=item B<-P>

Dump the parse tree of the configuration file(s).

=item B<-D>

Dump the cell database extracted from the configuration.

=item B<-v>

Increase the verbosity of the output.  This may be specified multiple
times.

=item B<-c <conffile>>

Specify a configuration file to read instead of the system default.
This may be specified multiple times and the configuration files are
read and applied in order.

=item B<-N <restriction>>

Apply a restriction to the lookup performed for the listed cells (if
any are).  Valid restrictions include:

=over

=item vl-srv

Don't use SRV records to find Volume Location servers.

=item vl-afsdb

Don't use AFSDB records to find Volume Location servers.

=item vl-all

Don't use SRV or AFSDB records to find Volume Location servers.

=item vl-host

Don't look cell name up as hostname to find a Volume Location server.

vl-dns

Don't do any lookups to find Volume Location servers.  Use only the
static configuration.

=back

=back

=head1 ARGUMENT

=over

=item <cellname>

The AFS cell name to display.  Multiple cells may be specified.  If no
cell name is specified the default cell specified in
C</proc/net/afs/rootcell> is displayed.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over

=item 0 - If check okay and any dumping succeeded

=item 1 - If an error occurs during processing

=item 2 - If a command line error occurs

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To display the configuration for the default cell:

        # kafs-check-config

        === Found cell some-cell.org ===
          - use-dns=no
          - show-cell=no
          - status: no-lookup, from config
          - VLSERVER shelter-4.some-cell.org [good; nss]
            - address 10.0.0.48
          - VLSERVER shelter-5.some-cell.org [good; nss]
            - address 10.0.0.54

To display two specific cells:

        # kafs-check-config ir.stanford.edu grand.central.org

        === Found cell ir.stanford.edu ===
          - show-cell=no
          - status: good, from SRV
          - VLSERVER afsdb3.stanford.edu [good; nss]
            - udp
            - port 7003, pref 0, weight 0
            - address 171.64.7.246
          - VLSERVER afsdb2.stanford.edu [good; nss]
            - udp
            - port 7003, pref 0, weight 0
            - address 171.64.7.234
          - VLSERVER afsdb1.stanford.edu [good; nss]
            - udp
            - port 7003, pref 0, weight 0
            - address 171.64.7.222

        === Found cell grand.central.org ===
          - show-cell=no
          - status: good, from SRV
          - VLSERVER grand.mit.edu [good; nss]
            - udp
            - port 7003, pref 0, weight 0
            - address 18.9.48.14
          - VLSERVER grand-old-opry.central.org [good; nss]
            - udp
            - port 7003, pref 0, weight 0
            - address 128.2.13.219

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<kafs>(7), B<kafs-client.conf>(5), B<kafs-preload>(8)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2019 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Written by David Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.
